---
date: 2017-07-12T17:12:33.962Z
title: "first_post"
id: 1
---

# Why I built this blog?
`May 31st 2021`

I've struggled with completing mini projects and this is one of my many attempts of building a personal blog. I'll admit it felt good finally coming through with it. On March 1st(2021) I left my job at Wmall to go on a sabbatical for 4 months. Is it normal for someone with only a couple years experience to get this priviledge? I am not sure but I will not take my CTOs kindness for granted, thank you Anubhav.

The reason for the sabbatical was burn out. I realised later its a common malady with my friends and peers. The lockdown was a major factor although I believe it was just a catalyst. I spent my initial days extremely anxious at not being productive. I suppose it was withdrawal from being a workaholic. I finished many books I put on hold and finally caught up with video games thanks to my [older brother](https://emaadmanzoor.com/) for getting me a gaming pc.

After some internal retrospection I know that I still love coding and building things. I'm glad that 18 year old me chose this path. During the troughs of my mental health I felt indifferent looking at code which is worse than despising it in my opinion. Which is why at the beginning of my sabbatical I planned on builing this blog. I spent days thinking how it would look and to make it as easy as possible to publish. After a lot of procastination fueled by my perfectionism which I overcame, I pulled through. I had a lot of fun, learnt so much about frontend engineering and I am satisfied with my *imperfect* blog.

I built this blog to document honest and cool parts of me. 

*Here we go*.

## UI Design

I bet you could tell this design isn't original. I **reverse engineered** aka *stole it* from Instagram. The design is minimal and managable to achieve with my technical skills. I wanted a good reference for a responsive design and Instagram is my favourite UX. This was my first ever project where I used `styled-components` and just generally used `CSS`. As a backend developer, it's not as scary as I believed it to be.

The biggest challenge and most fun component to build was the *Story Highlights*. I originally intended to build it on my own but I found this [lovely library](https://github.com/mohitk05/react-insta-stories#readme) on github. 

## Framework

I used Gatsby for building this. I owe a lot to the [tutorials](https://v2.gatsbyjs.com/docs/tutorial/), the sections of adding [markdown pages](https://v2.gatsbyjs.com/docs/tutorial/part-seven/) automatically are the backbone of this blog. I already knew Javascript since I used Nodejs at work and was familiar with some React concepts. Using GraphQL has been *interesting*. I wonder how complex it gets in larger projects like Instagram. 

## What's with the domain name?

Back in highschool we had an assignment for Shakespeare to enact a scene from any of his works. I didn't want to be another *To be or not to be* monologue and found this [Al Pacino speech in Merchant of Venice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=th7euZ30wDE). Not to brag but I killed it and got an encore to perform in other sections of my grade. I bought the domain name about a year ago and I'm glad I will finally put it to use.